# twitter-analysis-tools

I presented the results of this project at Sentinus Young Innovators 2016 and the Big Bang Fair 2017, you can find me giving [an interview on the project on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SlvfOR2nXEQ). In Sentinus Young Innovators I was awarded the University of Ulster ICT Award and tickets to the Big Bang Fair, where I won a Runner's Up Prize in the Senior Engineering catergory. After the competition, I was invited to represent the UK at the International Youth Talent forum, having been commended by the Institute of Technology.

Sadly, with new Twitter API regulations, a project using this technology is no longer viable.
*James Hancock, 2019*

### Old readme.md - 2017
A selection of tools to gather data from Twitter (for free!). Coded in python, made with love.

<i>You will need to get a Twitter Dev account and get an application set up for your secrets and tokens. Without the variables ckey, csecret, atoken and asecret assigned correctly the code will not work. I have imported the libraries genderGuesser and textBlob to handle some of the data analysis, if you want store gender and perform sentiment analysis you shall have to do the same or hack an alternative. </i>

GetUserIDs.py streams tweets live from Twitter and stores the userID of the owner of each tweet to a text file. Decide where you want to conduct your sample from, and plug the geographic coordinates into the GetUserIDs.py code (at the very bottom!). You can add other variables to the streamer code, such as text and language used, if you are looking for something more specific. Leave the code to run for as long as nescessary for your sample. To remove any duplicate userIDs from the file, go to http://textmechanic.com/text-tools/basic-text-tools/remove-duplicate-lines/.  

GetUserInfo.py systematically works its way through every userID in the textfile (as generated by GetUserIDs.py) getting data, processing it, and saving it to a mysqlite database. Comment out code that you don't need, but make sure that if you remove variables also remove them from the database definition and the save to database function (found at the beginning and end of the code respectively).

I stored my results to a mysqlite database for convinence as I had a sqlite database veiwer which could then convert my results into a format that R (statistical programming language) could understand. If you don't like sqlite, save the results to another format as you see fit.
